The President:
75 years ago today, in the midst of the Great Depression,
Franklin Roosevelt signed
Social Security into law,
laying a cornerstone in the
foundation of America's middle
class, and assuring generations
of America's seniors that after
a lifetime of hard work, they'd
have a chance to retire with dignity.
We have an obligation
to keep that promise;
to safeguard Social
Security for our seniors,
people with disabilities,
and for all Americans --
today, tomorrow, and forever.
Now, we've been talking for a
long time about how to do that;
about how to make sure Social
Security is healthy enough to
cover the higher costs that are
kicking in now that baby boomers
are retiring.
And I'm committed to
working with anyone,
Democrat or Republican, who wants to strengthen Social Security.
I'm also encouraged by the
reports of serious bipartisan
work being done on this and
other issues in the fiscal
commission that I set
up several months ago.
One thing we can't afford to
do though is privatize Social
Security -- an ill-conceived idea that would add trillions of
dollars to our budget deficit while tying your benefits to the
whims of Wall Street traders and the ups and downs of the stock market.
A few years ago, we had a
debate about privatizing Social Security.
And I'd have thought that debate
would've been put to rest once
and for all by the financial
crisis we've just experienced.
I'd have thought, after being
reminded how quickly the stock
market can tumble, after seeing
the wealth people worked a
lifetime to earn wiped
out in a matter of days,
that no one would want to place
bets with Social Security on
Wall Street; that everyone would
understand why we need to be
prudent about investing the
retirement money of tens of
millions of Americans.
But some Republican leaders in
Congress don't seem to have
learned any lessons
from the past few years.
They're pushing to make
privatizing Social Security a
key part of their legislative
agenda if they win a majority in
Congress this fall.
It's right up there on their
to-do list with repealing some
of the Medicare benefits and
reforms that are adding at least
a dozen years to the fiscal
health of Medicare --
the single longest
extension in history.
That agenda is wrong for
seniors, it's wrong for America,
and I won't let it happen.
Not while I'm President.
I'll fight with everything I've
got to stop those who would
gamble your Social
Security on Wall Street.
Because you shouldn't be worried
that a sudden downturn in the
stock market will put all
you've worked so hard for --
all you've earned -- at risk.
You should have the peace of
mind of knowing that after
meeting your responsibilities
and paying into the system all
your lives, you'll get
the benefits you deserve.
75 years ago today, Franklin
Roosevelt made a promise.
He promised that from that
day forward, we'd offer --
"some measure of protection to
the average citizen and to his
family against...poverty-stricken old age."
That's a promise each generation
of Americans has kept.
And it's a promise America will
continue to keep so long as I
have the honor of
serving as President.
Thanks for listening.
Thanks for watching.
And have a wonderful weekend.